Alpine Sprint Plone helm effort (#7)
plone/charts: README.md

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/helm/chart-testing)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/helm/chart-testing)
![ci](https://github.com/helm/chart-testing/workflows/ci/badge.svg)

`ct` is the the tool for testing Helm charts.
It is meant to be used for linting and testing pull requests.
It automatically detects charts changed against the target branch.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

It is recommended to use the provided Docker image which can be [found on Quay](https://quay.io/helmpack/chart-testing/).
It comes with all necessary tools installed.

* [Helm](http://helm.sh)
* [Git](https://git-scm.com) (2.17.0 or later)
* [Yamllint](https://github.com/adrienverge/yamllint)
* [Yamale](https://github.com/23andMe/Yamale)
* [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/)

### Binary Distribution

Download the release distribution for your OS from the Releases page:

https://github.com/helm/chart-testing/releases

Unpack the `ct` binary, add it to your PATH, and you are good to go!

### Docker Image

A Docker image is available at `quay.io/helmpack/chart-testing` with list of

> available tags [here](https://quay.io/repository/helmpack/chart-testing?tab=tags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[available tags](https://quay.io/repository/helmpack/chart-testing?tab=tags).
```

### Homebrew

```console
$ brew install chart-testing
```

## Usage

See documentation for individual commands:

* [ct](doc/ct.md)
* [ct install](doc/ct_install.md)
* [ct lint](doc/ct_lint.md)
* [ct lint-and-install](doc/ct_lint-and-install.md)
* [ct list-changed](doc/ct_list-changed.md)

> * [ct version](doc/ct_version.md)

Reviewer: Where are these files? None of these links work.

> For a more extensive how-to guide, please see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a more extensive how-to guide, see [charts-repo-actions-demo](https://github.com/helm/charts-repo-actions-demo).
```

> * [charts-repo-actions-demo](https://github.com/helm/charts-repo-actions-demo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Configuration

> `ct` is a command-line application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ct` is a command line application.
```

> All command-line flags can also be set via environment variables or config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All command line flags can be set via environment variables or a configuration file.
```

Environment variables must be prefixed with `CT_`.
Underscores must be used instead of hyphens.

> CLI flags, environment variables, and a config file can be mixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can mix CLI flags, environment variables, and a configuration file when running `ct`.
```

The following order of precedence applies:

1. CLI flags
1. Environment variables

> 1. Config file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configuration file
```

> Note that linting requires config file for [yamllint](https://github.com/adrienverge/yamllint) and [yamale](https://github.com/23andMe/Yamale).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that linting requires a configuration file for [yamllint](https://github.com/adrienverge/yamllint) and [yamale](https://github.com/23andMe/Yamale).
```

> If not specified, these files are search in the current directory, the `.ct` directory in current directory, `$HOME/.ct`, and `/etc/ct`, in that order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not specified, `ct` searches in the current directory, the `.ct` directory in the current directory, `$HOME/.ct`, and `/etc/ct`, in that order.
```

> Samples are provided in the [etc](etc) folder.

Reviewer: This should not be a link.

```suggestion
Samples are provided in the `etc` folder.
```

### Examples

> The following example show various way of configuring the same thing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show various way of configuring the same thing.
```

#### CLI

#### Remote repo

With remote repo:

>     ct install --remote upstream --chart-dirs stable,incubator --build-id pr-42

Reviewer: Let's specify the syntax, so that GitHub does not guess incorrectly.

````suggestion
```shell
ct install --remote upstream --chart-dirs stable,incubator --build-id pr-42
```
````

#### Local repo

> If you have a chart in current directory and ct installed on the host then you can run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a chart in the current directory, and `ct` installed on the host, then you can run the following command.
```

>     ct install --chart-dirs . --charts .

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
ct install --chart-dirs . --charts .
```
````

> With docker it works with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Docker, it works with:
```

>     docker run -it --network host --workdir=/data --volume ~/.kube/config:/root/.kube/config:ro --volume $(pwd):/data quay.io/helmpack/chart-testing:v3.7.1 ct install --chart-dirs . --charts .

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
docker run -it --network host --workdir=/data --volume ~/.kube/config:/root/.kube/config:ro --volume $(pwd):/data quay.io/helmpack/chart-testing:v3.7.1 ct install --chart-dirs . --charts .
```
````

> Notice that `workdir` param is important and must be the same as volume mounted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that the `workdir` parameter is important, and must have the same as the name of the mounted volume.
```

#### Environment Variables

    export CT_REMOTE=upstream
    export CT_CHART_DIRS=stable,incubator
    export CT_BUILD_ID

>     ct install

Reviewer: Replace above commands with the following.

````suggestion
```shell
export CT_REMOTE=upstream
export CT_CHART_DIRS=stable,incubator
export CT_BUILD_ID

ct install
```
````

#### Config File

`config.yaml`:

```yaml
remote: upstream
chart-dirs:
  - stable
  - incubator
build-id: pr-42
```

> #### Config Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configuration usage
```

>     ct install --config config.yaml

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
ct install --config config.yaml
```
````

> `ct` supports any format [Viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper) can read, i. e. JSON, TOML, YAML, HCL, and Java properties files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ct` supports any format [Viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper) can read, including JSON, TOML, YAML, HCL, and Java properties files.
```

> Notice that if no config file is specified, then `ct.yaml` (or any of the supported formats) is loaded from the current directory, `$HOME/.ct`, or `/etc/ct`, in that order, if found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that if no configuration file is specified, then `ct.yaml` (or any of the supported formats) is loaded from the current directory, `$HOME/.ct`, or `/etc/ct`, in that order, if found.
```

#### Using private chart repositories

> When adding chart-repos you can specify additional arguments for the `helm repo add` command using `helm-repo-extra-args` on a per-repo basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When adding chart repositories, you can specify additional arguments for the `helm repo add` command using `helm-repo-extra-args` on a per-repository basis.
```

> You can also specify OCI registries which will be added using the `helm registry login` command, they also support the `helm-repo-extra-args` for authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also specify OCI registries which will be added using the `helm registry login` command.
They also support the `helm-repo-extra-args` for authentication.
```

> This could for example be used to authenticate a private chart repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example could be used to authenticate a private chart repository.
```

`config.yaml`:

```yaml
chart-repos:
  - incubator=https://incubator.io
  - basic-auth=https://private.com
  - ssl-repo=https://self-signed.ca
  - oci-registry=oci://nice-oci-registry.pt
helm-repo-extra-args:
  - ssl-repo=--ca-file ./my-ca.crt
```

>     ct install --config config.yaml --helm-repo-extra-args "basic-auth=--username user --password secret"

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
ct install --config config.yaml --helm-repo-extra-args "basic-auth=--username user --password secret"
```
````

## Building from Source

`ct` is built using Go 1.13 or higher.

`build.sh` is used to build and release the tool.
It uses [Goreleaser](https://goreleaser.com/) under the covers.

> Note: on MacOS you will need `GNU Coreutils readlink`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: on macOS, you will need GNU Coreutils readlink.
```

You can install it with:

> ```console

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
````

brew install coreutils
```

Then add `gnubin` to your `$PATH`, with:

> ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

echo 'export PATH="$(brew --prefix coreutils)/libexec/gnubin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bash_profile
bash --login
```

To use the build script:

> ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

$ ./build.sh -h
Usage: build.sh <options>

Build ct using Goreleaser.

    -h, --help      Display help
    -d, --debug     Display verbose output and run Goreleaser with --debug
    -r, --release   Create a release using Goreleaser. This includes the creation
                    of a GitHub release and building and pushing the Docker image.
                    If this flag is not specified, Goreleaser is run with --snapshot
```

## Releasing

> ### Prepare Release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prepare release
```

Before a release is created, versions have to be updated in the examples.
A pull request needs to be created for this, which should be merged right before the release is cut.
Here's a previous one for reference: https://github.com/helm/chart-testing/pull/89

> ### Create Release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create release
```

The release workflow is [dispatched from github actions](https://github.com/helm/chart-testing/actions)

> Versions must start with a lower-case `v`, e. g. `v3.7.1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Versions must start with a lower-case `v`, for example, `v3.7.1`.
```

## Supported versions

The previous MAJOR version will be supported for three months after each new MAJOR release.

Within this support window, pull requests for the previous MAJOR version should be made against the previous release branch.
For example, if the current MAJOR version is `v2`, the pull request base branch should be `release-v1`.

## Upgrading

When upgrading from `< v2.0.0` you will also need to change the usage in your scripts.

> This is because, while the [v2.0.0](https://github.com/helm/chart-testing/releases/tag/v2.0.0) release has parity with `v1`, it was refactored from a bash library to Go so there are minor syntax differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because, while the [v2.0.0](https://github.com/helm/chart-testing/releases/tag/v2.0.0) release has parity with `v1`, it was refactored from a bash library to Go, so there are minor syntax differences.
```

![test](https://github.com/plone/helm-charts/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)

A collection of Helm Charts for Plone 6.

> If you want to run Plone 6 on Kubernetes this is probably a good starting point.

Reviewer: I would say it is the _only_ starting point, but maybe that won't be true for long. 😁 

```suggestion
If you want to run Plone 6 on Kubernetes, this repository is a good starting point.
```

There are different ways to use this repository:

> * Add a helm repo and use the published charts - see the next section on how to do this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add a Helm repository, and use the published charts. See the next section on how to do that.
```

> * Clone/fork the repository to adapt the charts to your needs or create new charts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Clone or fork the repository, and adapt the charts to your needs, or create new charts.
```

![test](https://github.com/plone/helm-charts/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)

A collection of Helm Charts for Plone 6.
If you want to run Plone 6 on Kubernetes, this repository is a good starting point.
There are different ways to use this repository:

* Add a Helm repository, and use the published charts. See the next section on how to do that.

> * As a library of subcharts that you can use to create your own composite charts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use as collection of subcharts from which you can create your own composite charts.
```
